variables are a facility found in all programming languages.
They allow you to store information required by your programs and to refer back to that
information and modify it at any time.
In this section,
we'll look at how variables are used in V B A and in this first video,
well,
look a declaring and populating variables in other words,
place in data inside them.
To get some practice on,
working with variables will create a macro in the word BB.
A train in template.
Let's go into the training folder and to open the word BB a training templates.
We right click and choose open.
Then that's going to develop visual basic and into the Section three modules s 03 Variables
and constants.
Unless creating on macron,
we'll use the prefix s 03 clearly one A,
and we'll call it a variable basics in V.
B.
A.
You can use variables distal two types of elements.
First of all,
regular data such as text numbers,
dates,
etcetera.
But you can also use variables just all references to all of the word objects that you
intend to manipulate.
You can store references to documents,
paragraphs,
tables numbered lists bulleted lists.
Anything that you plan to manipulate will do things well within your code.
So what we'll do here is will practice declaring on populating both data variables and
object variables.
First of all,
let's look at declaring variables to declare a variable.
Allows the V B a compiler to know how much memory toe allocate floor that type of data.
It also tells the compiler how the data is to be treated,
whether it's to be treated like text well,
like a numeric value well,
like a date to declare a variable used.
The key word did,
as in dimension,
and then you create a name for the variable.
The restrictions are name in variables of the same as the restriction on name in modules.
The name has to consist of letters and numbers and the underscore character,
but it can't begin with a number,
and obviously the name cannot contain any spaces.
In the interest of clarity,
it's useful to use a prefix with the name of variables to indicate the type of data that
the variable contains.
In our example,
let's say that we're beginning a macro,
which requires a new document to be created and we want to ask the user to enter a title
which will then insert as the first paragraph within that new document.
When the user enters the title Wiccan Stories in a variable,
the title will obviously be text Onda VB,
a data type which corresponds to text,
is strained.
A popular prefix to indicate that a variable is to contain a string is SDO,
so we'll call this variable str title.
Next we used the key would as and as soon as I type of space,
you'll see that intelli sense displays all the different types of element which can be
stored in a variable.
The reason that this list is so long it's because it contains a lot of word objects as well
as data types.
So for this variable,
we need strange having type str String is highlighted,
so I just press the tab key to insert it.
Declaring object variables is an identical procedure.
I tied him again.
I can use it prefixed.
So now I'm creating a variable toe hold a reference to a document.
Don't use the prefix DNC.
Let's call with D O C.
New as and as soon as I start to type document.
It's highlighted,
so I just press the tab key to insert it.
Now let's look assigning values to our variables.
First of all,
will assign a value to our string variable.
To do this,
we used the key word let then the name of the variable and then the Assignment Operator,
which is an equal sign on the right of the equal sign.
We now have to put any statement which the compiler will evaluate as a string.
So obviously the simplest thing we could do is to put a literal value,
for example,
and obviously this is a strength that goes in double quotes.
This doesn't give us very much flexibility,
however,
so let's undo that.
And instead we want the user to enter the title.
Now we've encountered the MSG box function,
which displays a message.
Its partner in crime is the input bought sanction,
which displays a dialogue containing a text field into which the user can enter some data.
So it's like input box open brackets and then word promises.
By displaying the parameters required by the input box function.
You'll also notice,
after all the parameters,
the words as string.
This indicates the type of data returned by the function.
So,
in other words,
to function returns a string which consists of the data entered by the user in the text
field.
The only parameter that's required hence the only parameter which is not in square brackets
is the prompt.
The message,
which is displayed above the text field instructing the user what we require them to enter
.
So we'll simply say,
Please enter title.
I haven't got the title.
We now want to create a new document and put a reference to it in our document variable.
To populate an object variable,
you use the keyword set in contrast to let which is used or data variables.
So it's set lock on you and again the assignment of razor equal,
and we now have to put any statement which refers to a document.
The statement that creates the document is such a statement.
It returns a document object which consists of the document you have just created.
So it's legitimate to place that statement after the Assignment Operator in V.
B.
A.
To create a new object,
you used the object collection to its that object belongs so in the case of a document.
We need the documents collection on the function or method which actually creates the new
object is add.
Although we don't need any parameters,
I'll put in the opening parenthesis so that we can have a look at the tool tip which is
displayed for us.
What I wanted to show you is that after all the parameters,
the optional parameters in this case which we don't need,
you'll see the words as document.
This indicates that the ad method or function,
returns a document object.
This is why it's legitimate to use the statement in this position because of the rule is
after the assignment.
Operator,
you have to come up with this statement which produces the type of data.
The corresponds to that variable.
So we have a document variable.
We've declared it as document.
Hence we must come up with a statement would refers to or returns the document object.
So on this occasion we simply want to create a standard document based on the default
normal template.
So we don't need any parameters so we can just delete the parenthesis is the final thing we
want to do then is to insert the title that the user has entered into our new document To
refer to our new document,
we now simply use the name of our variable.
So it's doc new and then we can use the useful property content equals str titled and to
make it into a paragraph.
Let's tag on using the concatenation operator and percent the carriage return and there's a
special V Be a constant,
which stands for carriage return,
which is V B C R.
And that's it.
So let's say and let's test our macron So up comes out input box.
There's our prompt Please enter title.
I'm just going to answer annual report when I click.
OK,
my new document is created annual reporters inserted.
If I show hidden characters,
you'll see I've got my return at the end.
So let's just close that and let's save our changes.
Unlike returns of the visual,
basic editor just like to make a couple of points regarding the Declaration of Variables
and the assignment of values.
Two Variables festival,
the contrast between let and set.
So we use let when we assign a value to a data variable and we use set when we assign a
value to object.
Variable,
however,
whereas the set keyword has to be used,
let is optional.
So you'll probably never see this in any code that you see in in books or in code that new
,
uh,
encounter on the Web,
for example,
because it's optional.
No one bothers to use it.
However,
I will point out this contrast from time to time just to remind you that there is this
distinction between the way your sign values data variables on the way that you assign
values to object valuables.
The second thing I'd like to point out is that variable declaration itself is an optional
step.
You don't have to do it,
but it is highly recommended,
and I'll give you an example of way.
It's a very useful if you decide,
as you should do that,
you are going to declare all your variables.
Then you should use this declaration option explicit at the top of every logical,
and I'll give you an example.
But,
boy,
it's useful to do this if I take out option explicit.
The step of variable declaration is now optional,
and one consequence of this is that if I make a typo when I enter the name of the variable
.
So let's say here,
what's next to the are the tea is next to the are so let's type of tea instead of an hour.
So mistyped the title.
Let's run our macro one small and we click OK,
and when I look at the outputs,
I have my knee document.
But the title that I answered is not in the new documents,
so obviously it won't take along in such a simple example.
It won't take me long to track down what the problem is.
There are times where the fact that there is an error stays hidden.
You don't even realize that there is an error there as a consequence of this simple mistake
that you've made in miss type in the name of the variable.
So let's look at what happens when we put back option explicit.
As soon as we try to run the macro,
it doesn't even compile,
so it doesn't run.
It tells us this variable hasn't been defined,
and obviously it's not going to take us long now to know that we've simply mistyped the
variable that we declared.
You don't have to type option explicit yourself.
You can have it automatically inserted at the top of every module on what determines this
is the setting in tools.
Options require variable declaration,
so as long as that is switched on every time you create a new model.
So let's just insert module.
You'll notice that option Explicit goes in there,
and it then means that you have enforced variable declaration.
And as we've seen,
it's very useful.
Let's just remove this.
So now that we've had a look at the basics of declaring variables and assigning values
student in the next video,
we'll move on to look more closely at the different types of data that you can store in
variables.
Although variable declaration is not essential in V B.
A,
it is good practice to use the option Expressive declaration.
To make it required to declare a variable used,
the keywords dim and as to assign a value to a data variable,
use the optional keyword,
let followed by the name of the variable,
followed by any statement which evaluates to the correct data.
Time to assign a value to an object.
Variable used the obligatory keyword set,
followed by the name of the variable,
followed by any statement which evaluates to the correct type of object